## What is DevOps culture? 

 *DevOps culture involves closer collaboration and a shared responsibility between development and operations for the products they create and maintain. This helps companies align their people, processes, and tools toward a more unified customer focus.*
 
*It involves cultivating multidisciplinary teams who take accountability for the entire lifecycle of a product. DevOps teams work autonomously and embrace a software engineering culture, workflow, and toolset that elevates operational requirements to the same level of importance as architecture, design and development. The understanding that developers who build it, also run it, brings developers closer to the user, with a greater understanding of user requirements and needs. With operations teams more involved in the development process, they can add maintenance requirements and customer needs for a better product.* 

*At the heart of DevOps culture is increased transparency, communication, and collaboration between teams that traditionally worked in siloes. But there are important cultural shifts that need to happen to bring these teams closer together. DevOps is an organizational culture shift that emphasizes continuous learning and continuous improvement, especially through team autonomy, fast feedback, high empathy and trust, and cross-team collaboration.*

*DevOps entails **shared responsibilities**. Development and operations staff should both be responsible for the success or failure of a product. Developers are expected to do more than just build and hand off to operations — they are expected to share the responsibility of overseeing a product through the entire course of its lifetime, adopting a "you build it, you run it" mentality. They test and operate software and collaborate more with QA (Quality Assurance) and ITOps (IT Operations) . When they understand the challenges faced by operations, they are more likely to simplify deployment and maintenance. Likewise, when operations understand the system’s business goals, they can work with developers to help define the operational needs of a system and adopt automation tools.*

***Autonomous teams** are another important aspect of DevOps. For the development and operations teams to collaborate effectively, they need to make decisions and implement changes without a cumbersome and lengthy approval process. This involves handing over trust to teams and establishing an environment where there is no fear of failure. These teams should have the right processes and tools in place to make decisions faster and easier, for each level of risk to the customer.* 

*For example, a typical development workflow might require engagement from several contributors on different teams to deploy code changes. The developer makes a code change and pushes it to a source control repository, engineer builds and deploys the code to a test environment, a product owner updates the status of the work in an issue tracking tool, etc. An autonomous team will take advantage of tools that automate these processes, so that pushing new code triggers the building and deployment of a new feature into a test environment and the issue tracking tool is updated automatically.*

*A DevOps team culture values fast feedback that can help with continuous improvement of a unified development and operations team. In an environment where the development and operations teams are in isolated silos, feedback about the performance and stability of application software in production is often slow to make it back to the development team, if it makes it at all. DevOps ensures that developers get the fast feedback they need to rapidly iterate and improve on application code by requiring collaboration between operations folks in designing and implementing application monitoring and reporting strategies. For example, any sufficiently capable continuous integration tool will enable automated build and testing of new code pushes and provide the developer with immediate feedback on the quality of their code.*

*Automation is essential to DevOps culture, since it allows great collaboration and frees up resources. Automating and integrating the processes between software development and IT teams helps them to build, test, and release software faster and more reliably.*
________________________________________
# What are the benefits of DevOps culture? 
________________________________________
*The most obvious and impactful benefit of embracing a DevOps culture is streamlined, frequent, and high-quality software releases. This not only increases company performance, but also employee satisfaction.*

*A DevOps culture fosters high levels of trust and collaboration, results in higher quality decision making, and even higher levels of job satisfaction, according to the book “Accelerate: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations.”*

*Embracing a DevOps culture is key to building a high-performing engineering organization without sacrificing employee contentment. It’s a win-win. For an engineer there is nothing like the feeling of frequently and easily deploying and running stable, high-performing software that makes its users happy, and for executives the improved business outcomes are a hit.*
________________________________________
